# Module 12 Report 

## Overview of the Analysis


* The purpose of this analysis is to evaluate a model created to classify loan risk. This project used a dataset of historical lending activity from a  peer-to-peer lending services company to build a model to identiy creditworthiness of borrowers. 
* The data was pulled from a CSV file containing financial information including loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt to income ratio, number of accounts, deragatory marks, total debt, and loan stats (being 0 for healthy status or 1 for high-risk of defaulting). I needed to predict wether or not loan status has any risk evaluation dependency based off of the other columns.
* By splitting the data into training and testing sets, this allowed me to separate loan status column from the rest of the data frame, to then make predictions of what loan status would be, with the split data. Finally, I compared the predictions with the actual loan status, which then allowed me to analyze wether this model is accurate. 
* The methods I used were train test split, then Logistic Regression, then predictions, and lastly-- confusion matrix, accuracy score, and classification report. 

## Results

* Machine Learning Model 1:
    * Classification Report
    loan status     precision       recall       f1-score           support

           0       1.00 (100%)     0.99 (99%)   1.00 (100%)         18765
           1       0.84 (84%)      0.94 (94%)   0.89 (89%)          619

    accuracy                                    0.99                19384
   macro avg       0.92 (92%)      0.97 (97%)   0.94 (94%)          19384
weighted avg       0.99 (99%)      0.99 (99%)   0.99 (99%)          19384

## Summary

* This Machine Learning model worked very well. Performance precision and accuracy depends a little on the problem we are trying to solve. If you are trying to create a machine that tells you wether the person is good for a loan, this model is perfect. If you are trying to predict if someone will default on a loan (high-risk), this model is still very accurate, just not AS accurate as it was with healthy. However, the support section shows us that there were actually 18,765 healthy loans.. and less high-risk (619 support). So The accuracy would be a more sensitive towards a wrong prediction with a smaller sample size. 

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
